ASEE Papers using the Pluto SDR
===============================

Incorporating PlutoSDR in the Communication Laboratory and Classroom: Potential or Pitfall?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  John E. Post P.E. Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University
-  Dennis A. Silage Temple University

The falling price and growing capability of student owned equipment fostering
the open laboratory paradigm is revolutionizing the curriculum of many
undergraduate analog and digital communication courses in electrical
engineering. Among other possibilities, student owned portable equipment
facilitates hands-on experiential learning and provides the opportunity to flip
the laboratory to increase student engagement. Up until now, this trend has had
reduced impact in the area of analog and digital communications because the most
capable equipment (such as the Universal Software Radio Peripheral or USRP
platform) was too expensive, and inexpensive equipment (such as the ubiquitous
RTL SDR dongle) lacked the necessary features for full transceiver
implementation. Currently retailing for $99, the Analog Devices ADALM-Pluto (or
Active Learning Module PlutoSDR) appears to have the potential to bridge the gap
between these two extremes. PlutoSDR is based on the Analog Devices AD9363 RF
agile transceiver. This transceiver provides up to 20 MHz of tunable channel
bandwidth between 325 MHz to 3.8 GHz, although it is possible to extend the
lower frequency range down to 70 MHz in at least one application. It is capable
of transmitting or receiving 61.44 MSPS in full duplex using separate receive
and transmit channels. PlutoSDR has a compact form-factor, is USB powered, and
can be controlled by a variety of software packages such as MATLAB, Simulink, or
GNU Radio through the USB port, or by custom Hardware Description Language (HDL)
software loaded onto PlutoSDR’s internal Xilinx Zynq System-on-Chip device.
Although the PlutoSDR can only legally transmit on Industrial, Scientific, and
Medical (ISM) bands, experimenters who hold Amateur Radio licenses are able to
exploit a much wider frequency range and applications of the PlutoSDR.
Additionally, the PlutoSDR provides easily incorporated spectrum analyzer
capabilities for emphasizing spectral properties of analog and digital
modulation during lectures. This paper will explore potential opportunities,
benefits, and pitfalls to be avoided, of incorporating PlutoSDR in the classroom
and open laboratory environments. We begin by reviewing the PlutoSDRs hardware
capability and limitations and setup requirements. Next, example communication
laboratories and demonstrations using PlutoSDR and MATLAB, Simulink, and GNU
Radio will be described. Finally, two semester’s worth of student observations
and comments on incorporating PlutoSDR into the student experience from XX XX
University at XX, XX are presented.

Full paper : https://strategy.asee.org/incorporating-plutosdr-in-the-communication-laboratory-and-classroom-potential-or-pitfall

Experience of IoT Transceiver with Affordable Software Defined Radio Platform
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Dr. Liang Hong, Tennessee State University

Due to the rapid growth in many applications, Internet of Things (IoT) will be a
prominent source for new hires in the engineering field. However, the growth of
IoT is outpacing the current workforce with necessary knowledge and skills, such
as IoT transceiver and software defined radio (SDR), the two key and highly
demanded techniques for IoT communications. In order to blaze a path to
introduce these two advanced techniques to future entry-level communication
engineers, a project based learning module using affordable SDR platform was
developed with experiential learning pedagogy. The learning materials were
developed based on well-defined objectives. Rubrics were also developed to
assess the learning outcomes. Through this module, the students will not only
gain valuable knowledge of the state-of-the-art IoT wireless communications,
interact with the real-world wireless signals over-the-air in real-time, but
also improve their creative thinking ability, hands-on and programming skills,
and capability to deal with many real-world issues and non-idealities.
Assessments show that the learning outcomes were met and the educational module
and materials were successful in teaching the advanced techniques with hands-on
experience in IoT domain. Additional benefits include increased students’
interests in other communication systems and broadened minority participation in
the nation's technology workforce.

Full paper: https://peer.asee.org/experience-of-iot-transceiver-with-affordable-software-defined-radio-platform.pdf

Sample-Based Understanding of Wireless Transceivers and Digital Transmission Via Software-Defined Radio
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Alexander M. Wyglinski, Worcester Polytechnic Institute

This paper presents an educational paradigm for the teaching of wireless
transceiver design and digital transmission techniques from a sample-based
perspective using compact form-factor software defined radio (SDR) technology.
SDR has been extensively leveraged as an educational resource for the
instruction of both undergraduate- and graduate-level digital communication
courses for approximately a decade. Given decreasing SDR equipment costs coupled
with increasing accessibility to communication system software design tools, SDR
technology had been incorporated in numerous electrical and computer engineering
curricula around the world. Although most of these SDR-based communication
courses view the system from a bit-, frame-, or packet-based perspective and are
constrained to laboratory environments, we present an educational framework
where the curriculum is sample-based, i.e., the entire communication system is
viewed from the analog-to-digital converter (ADC) and the digital-to-analog
converter (DAC), and the SDR platforms used are sufficiently compact that
students can use them anywhere. The curriculum begins with the fundamentals of
wireless communication systems engineering and the handling of complex-valued
samples produced by and sent to the ADC and DAC, followed by exposure to several
practical aspects of wireless transmission and transceiver implementations such
as frequency offset, timing correction, and frame synchronization. Once these
basic practical design considerations have been addressed, the course continues
with the implementation of various modulation (e.g., ASK, PSK, FSK) and coding
(e.g., BCH) schemes, with the objective of successfully transmitting ”hello
world” and other messages wirelessly over-the-air within a classroom
environment. Finally, several advanced topics such as multipath propagation,
equalization, and multicarrier modulation are covered. Throughout the course,
the students will be working in groups on a comprehensive course design project
that synthesizes many of the concepts taught in class. Although this educational
paradigm can use any SDR platform capable of handling complex-valued samples
(i.e., inphase samples and quadrature samples), the ADALM-PLUTO SDR platform by
Analog Devices was used in this course due to its capabilities and compact form
factor.

Full Paper: https://peer.asee.org/sample-based-understanding-of-wireless-transceivers-and-digital-transmission-via-software-defined-radio.pdf

Design and Outcome of a Course on Software-defined Radio Within the Computer Science Department
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Marc Lichtman, University of Maryland College Park

Over the last decade there has been a surge in professional work related to
Software-Defined Radio (SDR), and more broadly, Digital Signal Processing (DSP)
applied to wireless communications. However, we believe there is an inefficiency
when it comes to the current higher education system providing enough graduates
with an appropriate background to work in these areas. It may stem from the fact
that wireless communications, DSP, and SDR are all topics traditionally taught
at the graduate level within Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE). Thus,
the majority of persons with the requisite knowledge and interest will be ECE MS
and PhD graduates. While many ECE graduate level students are strong coders,
software development skills are not the primary focus of traditional ECE
programs, at least when compared to that of a typical Computer Science (CS)
curriculum. This results in a small pool of candidates for positions in wireless
communications and SDR, made up of MS and PhDs in ECE who happened to focus
within the area of wireless communications. Only a fraction of those will have
strong coding skills, and an even smaller fraction will have experience or
coursework related to software development. This causes a dilemma, since the
majority work performed by industry focuses on implementation of DSP in
software, rather than raw mathematics or pure derivation. It is not to say that
deep mathematical understanding is not required for industry, but software
focused positions are more abundant. We also want to stress that it’s not just a
problem of background knowledge; CS students are simply unlikely to end up in
these types of positions, because it’s an area they have never been introduced
to, unless they just happened to have taken an ECE course on the topic, or are
part of a multidisciplinary graduate research group.

Full paper: https://peer.asee.org/design-and-outcome-of-a-course-on-software-defined-radio-within-the-computer-science-department.pdf
